This file represents the overview line for two player games:

You are a suitor trying to have your
missives delivered to the princess of
the kingdom. You will employ the kingdom's
denizens to aid you in your quest for
the heart of the princess.

Enter number of players: 2

Two players will compete for the
heart of the princess!

Let us determine which player will make
their first attempt to deliver their
missive to the princess.

Who most recently wrote a letter? Emails count!

Enter starting player number: 1

Player one will go first. May lady luck
shine on both of your hearts!

Player one. Please take a reference card for yourself
and please give a reference card to your opponent.

Enter 'd' to distribute reference cards: d

These reference cards list the power, name,
quantity, and a brief description of each card in the game.

Here is a glimpse at your reference card:
9-Princess (x1): Out of the round if you play/discard.
8-Countess (x1): Must play if you have King or Prince.
7-King (x1): Trade hands.
6-Chancellor (x2): Draw 7 return 2 cards.
5-Prince (x2): Discard a hand & redraw.
4-Handmaid (x2): Immune to other cards until your next turn.
3-Baron (x2): Compare hands.
2-Priest (x2): Look at a hand.
1-Guard (x6): Guess a hand.
0-Spy (x2): Gain favor if no one else plays/discards a Spy.

To bring up your reference card, enter "ref" when asked
"What would you like to do?"

Player one. Shuffle the deck, if you please.

Enter 's' to shuffle deck: s

Player one shuffles the deck just enough,
then places the deck face down on the table
within reach of both players.

Player one. Please take the top card of the
deck and place it face down next to the deck.

Enter 'r' to remove the top card of the deck: r

Thank you Player one. This face down card,
that Player one most graciously placed next
to the deck, is now the down pile.

Player one. Please take the top three cards
from the deck and place them face up on the
opposite side of the down pile.

Enter 'r' to remove the top three cards: 'r

Thank you Player one. Let us take a look at
what the honorable Player one has removed for us:

The Princess...
The King...
A Guard...

That is indeed unfortunate for the two of you.
Regardless, this pile is now the discard pile.
All of the cards that you discard will go into
this pile from this point on.

Player one. Please deal one card to your opponent.
Then take one card from the top of the deck.

Enter 'd' to deal cards: d

Excellent! Now, a bit of rule giving if you don't mind.

Love Letter is a competitive game that is played
over multiple rounds. You will enlist the aid of
allies, firends, and family of the princess to
deliver a latter of intent to her.

The card in your hand, which we will reveal
at the beginning of your turn, represents
the messenger that currently holds your letter.
This messenger holding your letter can
change as you draw and play cards.

To win a round, you must either have the highest
value card at the end of the round or be the
only player left in the round.

Take turns in clockwise order. On your turn
draw one card from the deck. Then, choose
and play one of your two cards, resolving its effect.

Some card effects knock you out of the round;
a competing player has ensured that your letter
will not be delivered.

When this happens, you will be forced to
discard your hand face up in front of you,
without resolving card effects. This means
your opponenet has won the round.

The round ends in on eof two ways:
1. Only one player is left in the round.
2. The deck runs out of cards.

After any turn, if the deck is empty, all
players still in the round reveal and compare
their hands.

If you have the highest value card, you win
the round and gain one favor token. Your letter
was successfully delivered to the princess.

If there is a tie, all tied players win the round
and each gains a favor token.

If you are the only player left in the round,
which means your opponent is out, the round
immediately ends and you gain one favor token.

The game ends when either you, or your opponent,
gain six favor tokens.

Each card features a key person in the princess's
life. When you draw a card, it will be inserted
into your hand and will be ready for you to use.
Here is an example of your typical turn:

Player one. Enter 'd' to draw a card: d

Player one draws one card to their hand.

Player one hand:
Princess, Guard

Player one. What would you like to do?

When asked this question, you will have three choices.
You can either play a card, inspect your reference card,
or inspect any one of your cards.

Here is an example of inspecting one of your cards:
Player one. What would you like to do?

Choice: inspect, princess

9-Princess (x1)
If you either play or discard the Princess
for any reason, you are immediately out of the round.

Here is an example of inspecting your reference card:
Player one. What would you like to do?

Choice: inspect, reference

9-Princess (x1): Out of the round if you play/discard.
8-Countess (x1): Must play if you have King or Prince.
7-King (x1): Trade hands.
6-Chancellor (x2): Draw 7 return 2 cards.
5-Prince (x2): Discard a hand & redraw.
4-Handmaid (x2): Immune to other cards until your next turn.
3-Baron (x2): Compare hands.
2-Priest (x2): Look at a hand.
1-Guard (x6): Guess a hand.
0-Spy (x2): Gain favor if no one else plays/discards a Spy.

Here is an example of playing a card:
Player one. What would you like to do?

Choice: play, princess

Player one plays the princess.

Player one is out!

When asked what you would like to do you make also
inspect the rule book:

Player one. What would you like to do?

Choice: inspect, rules

You will be given a list of categories that you may
choose when inspecting the rules.

1. Overview
2. Setup
3. Playing the Game
4. Player Turn
5. Out of the round
6. End of a Round
7. Deck Runs Out
8. One Player Left
9. Starting the Next Round
10. Winning the Game

You will be given the option to either
choose a category, or exit the rule book.

Choice: 1

or

Choice: exit

Now the suitors have been readied for
a chance at winning the heart of the princess!
May luck shine on both of your hearts!